hey this is presto Walker a test in New
Zealand recently grabbed headlines for
leaving 15 year olds in tears because
the students felt the test was too hard
I made a video about one problem from
the exam and I had a request to make a
video about another problem the kite GDB
e is placed in the square a CHF DG
equals G B equals e G calculate the size
X of angle DB e justify your answer with
clear geometric reasoning can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solution in presenting the solution
I'm going to make one slight change to
the diagram I'm going to adjust the
lengths ever so slightly so the diagram
is to scale this will make it easier to
see the lengths and angles involved the
key to solving this problem is to
consider the diagonals of the kite now
I'm going to present how you can find
the solution and I hope I justify it
with enough logic but I'm going to just
present an outline in this video and if
there any small gaps in the steps
I'm sure someone in the comments will be
willing to sort it out so one way you
can solve this problem is that after you
draw the diagonals you'll be able to
find a 30-60-90 right triangle which
will allow you to figure out the angles
that are necessary to get the value of x
well first draw diagonals D E and G B
and suppose they meet at Point I in a
kite the diagonals are always
perpendicular to each other
furthermore since DG is equal to e G
diagonal G be perpendicularly bisects
diagonal de
therefore di is equal to ie and GB is
equal to the length of the square but
since de is also the length of the
square we can conclude that decides DG
and G B and E G will equal twice di and
twice ie now we have a right triangle
di G whose hypotenuse DG has twice the
length of one of its legs di if you have
a right triangle where its hypotenuse is
two times the length of one of its legs
that means it's a 30-60-90 right
triangle and the angle that's opposite
the side of di will be equal to 30
degrees therefore angle D GI is equal to
30 degrees by similar reasoning e IG is
a 30-60-90 right triangle and so angle
eg I is equal to 30 degrees so we're
almost there to be able to calculate the
size of X the vertical diagonal splits
the kite into two congruent isosceles
triangles this is because we have side
angle side D G is equal to G B is equal
to GE and the angle between those sides
is equal at 30 degrees therefore the
remaining angles in these isosceles
triangles will be equal to each other
angle G DB equals angle g BD equals
angle G EB which equals angle GBE so
this means angle X is bisected by this
vertical diagonal furthermore the sum of
the angles in a triangle is 180
degrees so we can add up the two
remaining angles plus 30 degrees to be
180 degrees those two angles will be
equal to each other and two of them
together will be equal to 150 degrees
and two of them together is also the
size of X therefore X is 150 degrees so
this is one way that you can solve the
problem there's another way that might
be slightly shorter or some people might
be able to understand a little bit
easier but it's almost the same solution
is to consider an equilateral triangle
formed when you draw the diagonals so
we'll again draw the diagonals of the
kite and we'll put their common meeting
point as I now instead of considering
the 30-60-90 right triangles we'll
consider the larger triangle which is
deg so we have these lengths which we've
already deduced from the previous
solution method and just to restate we
know that de is equal to the length of
the square which is equal to DG which
equals GB which equals e G therefore DG
e is an equilateral triangle so each of
its angles is equal to 60 degrees in
particular angle D GE equals 60 degrees
we then have triangles DGI and egi being
congruent by side-side-side
therefore the angles DGI and EG i will
be equal to each other and it will be
half of 60 degrees which is 30 degrees
so we once again figured out these
angles are 30 degrees each and we can
proceed just like in the last proof
where we have congruent isosceles
triangles and we can figure out the
value of x from there well again get 150
degrees did you figure out this problem
and do you think it was too hard to give
to fifteen-year-olds thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
if you like this video you can support
me on patreon you can also check on my
books which are listed in the video
description and you can catch your own
social media either app mind your
decisions or at pressure Walker
depending on the site